[Music]
like a prowler autistic engaged
welcome to ours the dumbest automotive
channel in all of YouTube and I saw this
well used 1999 Plymouth Prowler for sale
and auto tempest with 68,000 miles my
first thought was who would be crazy
enough to drive a Prowler 68,000 miles
like a daily driver I had no intention
of buying it
but when they accepted my $15,000 offer
making it the cheapest Plymouth Prowler
in the USA by a wide margin I mean I had
to write I expected it to be some goofy
novelty car that wouldn't be much fun to
drive but man was I wrong not not about
the goofy part it is extremely goofy but
this Prowler is an absolute hoot to
drive is a hoot and I would like to
thank or blame depending on how this
turns out auto Timbits for being a
continued sponsors of this channel and
making it way too easy to enable my
hoopty buying addiction like I said I
wasn't planning on buying a prowler but
I find myself searching their website
for deals on a daily basis and Auto
Timbers makes car shopping so simple as
it consolidates the search process
across all the big car sell websites
meaning you hit one button on Auto
Tempest to see listings from all the top
websites at once plus other places you
might not have thought to check I never
would have found this Prowler if I
wasn't using auto tempest as it was
advertised on a site that I rarely go to
myself if there's a very specific car
you're interested in Auto tip is is very
handy when you use their advanced
toolbar as you can set parameters like
fuel type Drive type and color like
purple this saves so much time searching
as before Auto tempest I to put the same
search parameters over and over and over
again across different sites so it made
things very easy to find the cheapest
prior in the USA and you can search for
your own wild Dodge Intrepid powered
feline by using Auto tempest yourself
linked in the description below you can
also help me find whatever cheapest car
you think I should buy next so get
started searching for free and support
my generous sponsors by trying out Auto
tempest linked below
so the Prowler came into existence after
a 1993 concept car and some credit to
the design is given to Chip Foose it
looks like a drawing of his when he was
in design school and when you look at
this thing it is so hard to believe that
a car like this this
crazy made it into production but if you
think back on Chrysler back before the
recession they were building some crazy
cars you had the the Shelby Omni Carroll
Shelby with a hot hatch in the 80s and
then the Dodge Dakota convertible a
convertible pickup truck and the Dodge
Neon Express oh and of course the Dodge
Viper but the Plymouth Prowler is the
craziest one of them all after this they
had some other retro modern cars like
the PT Cruiser II but that was pretty
practical and the Chrysler Crossfire was
a Mercedes based convertible or coupe
but all the crazy cars pretty much ended
during the Great Recession and
Chrysler's bankruptcy now they are a
mostly super conservative kind of boring
company just like everybody else trying
to figure out the next crossover but
it's fun to go back and be nostalgic of
a day when they were building crazy cars
like this now there was a practical
purpose for Chrysler to greenlight this
car and that's because they wanted to
experiment with aluminum bonding
techniques on a smaller scale production
they couldn't do with a car that they
mass-produce so doing it was something
small scale like the Prowler was a good
idea for them and it means this is a
very advanced chassis as made of mostly
aluminum and composite materials that
makes it very lightweight so the bones
of this car are very advanced despite it
being retro modern but they didn't build
this thing with a totally open checkbook
they had to make some 90s Chrysler
compromises that that definitely
crippled this thing or wounded it so one
thing Chrysler didn't compromise on was
the design this looks just like the
original concept with very few
exceptions Chrysler built a beautiful
tribute to a 1932 Ford it's just so
weird but one change was the bumperettes
it had it on the concept car but they
weren't nearly this big or plasticky and
these impact bumpers well some people
love them some people hate them I'm
going to leave mine on to me they look
kind of like stockades if you put your
legs in here your arms in here and well
torture somebody with it but the car
itself is very advanced it has that
combination of aluminum and composite
with the body and the chassis and it has
near 50/50 weight distribution
engine is behind the front wheels and
the transmission is mounted in the back
so it has a torque tube kind of like a
944 or a c5 Corvette you can see there's
quite a bit of business going on back
here probably a trans cooler and the
trans axle so you look underneath and it
looks very advanced with all that
aluminum but it's on a retro body so
this is the original resto mod and the
front suspension looks more like an Indy
car than a hotrod with this double
wishbone suspension very neat but it's
from this moment that things start to go
downhill
starting with well the interior now the
interior does have a lot of the modern
conveniences air conditioning standard
power windows locks keyless entry but
it's all 90s Chrysler plastic fantastic
looks like the kind of stuff you can get
out of Dodge Stratus or a neon and the
seats well they have plenty of cushion
to them I was kind of surprised with
that and look at the gauge setup here
you have the tachometer tacked on just
like an old hot rod and the speedometer
in the middle just like a 32 Ford so
then the gauges there's nothing really
special here just a lot of parts been
chrysler stuff and that's the major fail
of this car especially this right here
at the AutoStick we'll get to that in a
bit
but one thing I like about the Prowler
is it has a usable top this is an
electric push-button release here for
the trunk which is almost unusable you
may not even be able to get one piece of
luggage in here and the top just simply
folds up from here it's a very simple
but usable top unlike well a viper that
had just a toupee you could slap
nothings get even goofier when you pop
the hood under here is probably the
biggest letdown that people have with
the Prowler and that's the 3.5 liter v6
they chose to put in here same as say a
Chrysler 300 or a Dodge Intrepid now
personally I'm not that disappointed in
this engine initially the 1997 Prowler
only had 215 horsepower but by 99 they
had upped that horsepower to 253 which
is more than most v8 that dodge had in
their trucks back in the day so plenty
of power and apparently it's an aluminum
engine so it kind of goes with the theme
of lightness with this thing but look
how tightly packed this engine is in
here in this V shape and they decided
down here to mount the battery it looks
pretty easy to remove but what a strange
place to mount the battery and you can
see the suspension sit up here once
again it looks a lot like an Indy car so
you're probably wondering how this weird
combination all works together the
combination of 32 Ford hot rod with any
car suspension and a lightweight
aluminum and composite body and 90s
Chrysler well crap how it all works
together and my first thought before I
drove it was it would be totally awful
but now I've had it for a little while
it's actually it's actually not that bad
it's it's pretty good
so the first thing that struck me when I
drove this thing is how comfortable the
seats are these are deep cushy
comfortable seats that you find in a 90s
Chrysler product they are fantastic
going I noticed well I have no idea
where the nose ends on this thing I
can't see the front of the car and so
the first time I pull this thing in the
garage
I actually bopped the nose of my Ferrari
348 but here's something really funny
inside of every Dodge Intrepid there's a
potential exhaust it like this
probably notice that you're bouncing
around a little bit yeah this suspension
is very harsh and people would knock his
AutoStick transmission which is what I'm
using right now must have never driven a
Ferrari f1 paddle shift as this isn't
nearly as awful sure it shifts slower
but when you actually shift the car
itself it's not that bad so the
suspension is obviously pretty harsh
realistic
sure-sure slowly but it shifts smoothly
and look at Seqwater
I'm slap shifting it down in the second
that's great if you just ignore the fact
that it's a bunch of Chrysler stuff the
check engine lights on the suspension is
definitely clunky and the entire
dashboard vibrates when you go over
bumps it's pretty fun I have to say I
might like this thing better than my old
Dodge Viper
so I bet you're just as surprised as me
that this hodgepodge of 90s Chrysler
weirdness actually drives nice is pretty
comfortable it has plenty of the modern
conveniences it handles really well and
it's and it's not it's not slow it's
actually really fun to drive and I
didn't expect that I would like this
thing as much as I did still it is a 90s
Chrysler product with plenty of issues
and it was the cheapest Plymouth Prowler
in the USA so I expected some but I
imagine we're going to find quite a bit
when we go up to the car wizards thank
you for watching
[Music]
you